### Better Type Inference {#better-type-inference}

In recent years, more and more frontend developers are adopting [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) as it helps us write more robust code, make changes with more confidence, and provides a great development experience with IDE support. However, the Options API, originally conceived in 2013, was designed without type inference in mind. We had to implement some [absurdly complex type gymnastics](https://github.com/vuejs/core/blob/44b95276f5c086e1d88fa3c686a5f39eb5bb7821/packages/runtime-core/src/componentPublicInstance.ts#L132-L165) to make type inference work with the Options API. Even with all this effort, type inference for Options API can still break down for mixins and dependency injection.

This had led many developers who wanted to use Vue with TS to lean towards Class API powered by `vue-class-component`. However, a class-based API heavily relies on ES decorators, a language feature that was only a stage 2 proposal when Vue 3 was being developed in 2019. We felt it was too risky to base an official API on an unstable proposal. Since then, the decorators proposal has gone through yet another complete overhaul, and finally reached stage 3 in 2022. In addition, class-based API suffers from logic reuse and organization limitations similar to Options API.

In comparison, Composition API utilizes mostly plain variables and functions, which are naturally type friendly. Code written in Composition API can enjoy full type inference with little need for manual type hints. Most of the time, Composition API code will look largely identical in TypeScript and plain JavaScript. This also makes it possible for plain JavaScript users to benefit from partial type inference.
