### Compiled Code Compatibility with Older Runtime {#compiled-code-compatibility-with-older-runtime}

A newer **minor** version of Vue compiler may generate code that isn't compatible with the Vue runtime from an older minor version. For example, code generated by Vue 3.2 compiler may not be fully compatible if consumed by the runtime from Vue 3.1.

This is only a concern for library authors, because in applications, the compiler version and the runtime version is always the same. A version mismatch can only happen if you ship pre-compiled Vue component code as a package, and a consumer uses it in a project using an older version of Vue. As a result, your package may need to explicitly declare a minimum required minor version of Vue.

## Pre Releases {#pre-releases}

Minor releases typically go through a non-fixed number of beta releases. Major releases will go through an alpha phase and a beta phase.

Additionally, we publish canary releases every week from the `main` and `minor` branches on GitHub. They are published as different packages to avoid bloating the npm metadata of the stable channel. You can install them via `npx install-vue@canary` or `npx install-vue@canary-minor`, respectively.

Pre-releases are meant for integration / stability testing, and for early adopters to provide feedback for unstable features. Do not use pre-releases in production. All pre-releases are considered unstable and may ship breaking changes in between, so always pin to exact versions when using pre-releases.

## Deprecations {#deprecations}

We may periodically deprecate features that have new, better replacements in minor releases. Deprecated features will continue to work, and will be removed in the next major release after it entered deprecated status.

## RFCs {#rfcs}

New features with substantial API surface and major changes to Vue will go through the **Request for Comments** (RFC) process. The RFC process is intended to provide a consistent and controlled path for new features to enter the framework, and give the users an opportunity to participate and offer feedback in the design process.

The RFC process is conducted in the [vuejs/rfcs](https://github.com/vuejs/rfcs) repo on GitHub.

## Experimental Features {#experimental-features}

Some features are shipped and documented in a stable version of Vue, but marked as experimental. Experimental features are typically features that have an associated RFC discussion with most of the design problems resolved on paper, but still lacking feedback from real-world usage.

The goal of experimental features is to allow users to provide feedback for them by testing them in a production setting, without having to use an unstable version of Vue. Experimental features themselves are considered unstable, and should only be used in a controlled manner, with the expectation that the feature may change between any release types.

---

---
url: /api/render-function.md
---
# Render Function APIs {#render-function-apis}

## h() {#h}

Creates virtual DOM nodes (vnodes).

- **Type**

  ```ts
  // full signature
  function h(
    type: string | Component,
    props?: object | null,
    children?: Children | Slot | Slots
  ): VNode

  // omitting props
  function h(type: string | Component, children?: Children | Slot): VNode

  type Children = string | number | boolean | VNode | null | Children[]

  type Slot = () => Children

  type Slots = { [name: string]: Slot }
  ```

  > Types are simplified for readability.

- **Details**

  The first argument can either be a string (for native elements) or a Vue component definition. The second argument is the props to be passed, and the third argument is the children.

  When creating a component vnode, the children must be passed as slot functions. A single slot function can be passed if the component expects only the default slot. Otherwise, the slots must be passed as an object of slot functions.

  For convenience, the props argument can be omitted when the children is not a slots object.

- **Example**

  Creating native elements:

  ```js
  import { h } from 'vue'

  // all arguments except the type are optional
  h('div')
  h('div', { id: 'foo' })

  // both attributes and properties can be used in props
  // Vue automatically picks the right way to assign it
  h('div', { class: 'bar', innerHTML: 'hello' })

  // class and style have the same object / array
  // value support like in templates
  h('div', { class: [foo, { bar }], style: { color: 'red' } })

  // event listeners should be passed as onXxx
  h('div', { onClick: () => {} })

  // children can be a string
  h('div', { id: 'foo' }, 'hello')

  // props can be omitted when there are no props
  h('div', 'hello')
  h('div', [h('span', 'hello')])

  // children array can contain mixed vnodes and strings
  h('div', ['hello', h('span', 'hello')])
  ```

  Creating components:

  ```js
  import Foo from './Foo.vue'

  // passing props
  h(Foo, {
    // equivalent of some-prop="hello"
    someProp: 'hello',
    // equivalent of @update="() => {}"
    onUpdate: () => {}
  })

  // passing single default slot
  h(Foo, () => 'default slot')

  // passing named slots
  // notice the `null` is required to avoid
  // slots object being treated as props
  h(MyComponent, null, {
    default: () => 'default slot',
    foo: () => h('div', 'foo'),
    bar: () => [h('span', 'one'), h('span', 'two')]
  })
  ```

- **See also** [Guide - Render Functions - Creating VNodes](/guide/extras/render-function#creating-vnodes)

## mergeProps() {#mergeprops}

Merge multiple props objects with special handling for certain props.

- **Type**

  ```ts
  function mergeProps(...args: object[]): object
  ```

- **Details**

  `mergeProps()` supports merging multiple props objects with special handling for the following props:

  - `class`
  - `style`
  - `onXxx` event listeners - multiple listeners with the same name will be merged into an array.

  If you do not need the merge behavior and want simple overwrites, native object spread can be used instead.

- **Example**

  ```js
  import { mergeProps } from 'vue'

  const one = {
    class: 'foo',
    onClick: handlerA
  }

  const two = {
    class: { bar: true },
    onClick: handlerB
  }

  const merged = mergeProps(one, two)
  /**
   {
     class: 'foo bar',
     onClick: [handlerA, handlerB]
   }
   */
  ```

## cloneVNode() {#clonevnode}

Clones a vnode.

- **Type**

  ```ts
  function cloneVNode(vnode: VNode, extraProps?: object): VNode
  ```

- **Details**

  Returns a cloned vnode, optionally with extra props to merge with the original.

  Vnodes should be considered immutable once created, and you should not mutate the props of an existing vnode. Instead, clone it with different / extra props.

  Vnodes have special internal properties, so cloning them is not as simple as an object spread. `cloneVNode()` handles most of the internal logic.

- **Example**

  ```js
  import { h, cloneVNode } from 'vue'

  const original = h('div')
  const cloned = cloneVNode(original, { id: 'foo' })
  ```

## isVNode() {#isvnode}

Checks if a value is a vnode.

- **Type**

  ```ts
  function isVNode(value: unknown): boolean
  ```

## resolveComponent() {#resolvecomponent}

For manually resolving a registered component by name.

- **Type**

  ```ts
  function resolveComponent(name: string): Component | string
  ```

- **Details**

  **Note: you do not need this if you can import the component directly.**

  `resolveComponent()` must be called inside<span class="composition-api"> either `setup()` or</span> the render function in order to resolve from the correct component context.

  If the component is not found, a runtime warning will be emitted, and the name string is returned.

- **Example**

  <div class="composition-api">

  ```js
  import { h, resolveComponent } from 'vue'

  export default {
    setup() {
      const ButtonCounter = resolveComponent('ButtonCounter')

      return () => {
        return h(ButtonCounter)
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  </div>
  <div class="options-api">

  ```js
  import { h, resolveComponent } from 'vue'

  export default {
    render() {
      const ButtonCounter = resolveComponent('ButtonCounter')
      return h(ButtonCounter)
    }
  }
  ```

  </div>

- **See also** [Guide - Render Functions - Components](/guide/extras/render-function#components)

## resolveDirective() {#resolvedirective}

For manually resolving a registered directive by name.

- **Type**

  ```ts
  function resolveDirective(name: string): Directive | undefined
  ```

- **Details**

  **Note: you do not need this if you can import the directive directly.**

  `resolveDirective()` must be called inside<span class="composition-api"> either `setup()` or</span> the render function in order to resolve from the correct component context.

  If the directive is not found, a runtime warning will be emitted, and the function returns `undefined`.

- **See also** [Guide - Render Functions - Custom Directives](/guide/extras/render-function#custom-directives)

## withDirectives() {#withdirectives}

For adding custom directives to vnodes.

- **Type**

  ```ts
  function withDirectives(
    vnode: VNode,
    directives: DirectiveArguments
  ): VNode

  // [Directive, value, argument, modifiers]
  type DirectiveArguments = Array<
    | [Directive]
    | [Directive, any]
    | [Directive, any, string]
    | [Directive, any, string, DirectiveModifiers]
  >
  ```

- **Details**

  Wraps an existing vnode with custom directives. The second argument is an array of custom directives. Each custom directive is also represented as an array in the form of `[Directive, value, argument, modifiers]`. Tailing elements of the array can be omitted if not needed.

- **Example**

  ```js
  import { h, withDirectives } from 'vue'

  // a custom directive
  const pin = {
    mounted() {
      /* ... */
    },
    updated() {
      /* ... */
    }
  }

  // <div v-pin:top.animate="200"></div>
  const vnode = withDirectives(h('div'), [
    [pin, 200, 'top', { animate: true }]
  ])
  ```

- **See also** [Guide - Render Functions - Custom Directives](/guide/extras/render-function#custom-directives)

## withModifiers() {#withmodifiers}

For adding built-in [`v-on` modifiers](/guide/essentials/event-handling#event-modifiers) to an event handler function.

- **Type**

  ```ts
  function withModifiers(fn: Function, modifiers: ModifierGuardsKeys[]): Function
  ```

- **Example**

  ```js
  import { h, withModifiers } from 'vue'

  const vnode = h('button', {
    // equivalent of v-on:click.stop.prevent
    onClick: withModifiers(() => {
      // ...
    }, ['stop', 'prevent'])
  })
  ```

- **See also** [Guide - Render Functions - Event Modifiers](/guide/extras/render-function#event-modifiers)

---

---
url: /guide/extras/render-function.md
---

# Render Functions & JSX {#render-functions-jsx}

Vue recommends using templates to build applications in the vast majority of cases. However, there are situations where we need the full programmatic power of JavaScript. That's where we can use the **render function**.

> If you are new to the concept of virtual DOM and render functions, make sure to read the [Rendering Mechanism](/guide/extras/rendering-mechanism) chapter first.

## Basic Usage {#basic-usage}
